Venezuela's hyperinflationary crisis
continues to worsen as food becomes even
more expensive and consumes more of
everyone's income when factoring in for
the black market pricing it is literally
unaffordable the government's response
eliminate the opposition you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we're going to talk about
Venezuela and several other issues I
have been covering Venezuela quite a bit
Rec recently it's obviously important
but I don't want to spend too much time
on it there are many other factors we
need to look at but let's just go
through these quickly and show you why
this is important Venezuela's money the
boulevard is sinking faster and faster
under an intensifying political and
economic crisis left citizens destitute
and increasingly desperate recently I
had covered the topic of how they wanted
to Institute this new constituent
assembly Maduro said we will have a con
constituent assembly that is higher than
all the other branches of government and
they can in fact get rid of the other
pieces of the government should they
decide to they can rewrite the
Constitution and in fact that is their
first priority but who is going to be
part of this constituent assembly well
that's what the vote was about people
didn't get to vote whether they wanted
it or not they were
simply forced into deciding who would be
on it and you'll be very amazed at who
is part of that on Thursday alone 15 the
slump the boulevard slumped nearly 15%
on the black market to be worth
177,000 to1 us now that's the black
market rate but what you'll know from
people on the inside is that often times
they have to buy on the black market if
they want to eat certain things if they
want to have certain things they have to
go to the black market and we're not
talking about luxury goods we're not
talking about imported goods or or
anything like this we're talking about
basic things that they need to
live and they don't have it so they go
to the black market if they can afford
it and they are paying astronomical
prices in a year the currency has lost
94% that's huge you know the Federal
Reserve has done a great job to the US
dollar year after year after year
decreasing its value and it took a lot
longer than one year to do the damage
that they have done so kudos to
Venezuela for their job well done here
the decline has been dizzying yet
largely ignored by the government which
uses an official fixed weekly uh rate
we're talking about
2870 to the dollar okay but what's
interesting is is that there's sort of
different rates at which people are
paying for different items but as I've
said often times they have to they have
to go to the black market because
they're forced to unfortunately all
right let's look at this a new
Venezuelan assembly packed with allies
of President Nicholas Maduro head's
first session on Friday deepening a rift
with the opposition amid criticism of
the US EU and goes on all right part of
the 500 Plus members who are they
maduro's wife and son
okay the wife and son are part of the
assembly that's supposedly sitting there
that's going to help out the
situation look at what just happened I
can't believe that I mean usually you
have friends maybe business friends old
friends and things part of the people
part of the government in some way board
of directors in another way
and instead you have muro's wife and son
as part of it I'm going to get into more
of these details as time goes on and
finding out who's part of these members
look at their connections and see but I
think we got a pretty good
idea the constituent assembly has
Supreme Powers over all branches of
government as it takes on its principal
task of rewriting the
Constitution rewriting the Constitution
what a genius idea you would want to do
that if you probably had an issue with
your current level of power or authority
and you want to change that you want to
permanently write it into the
Constitution that you are the dictator
and that is
coming at this point it's set in stone
that the constituent assembly which is
above the other branches of government
can literally get rid of the other
opposition that's there which basically
is insignificant at this
point it it's gone I'm
unfortunately the people in Venezuela
it's
over I'm just trying to be
honest this was an article from back in
[Music]
2013 talking about
Chavez and I don't know how accurate it
is let's just go with what we have here
it's from the
telegraph the late president I believe
this is just following his death here
the late President Chavez family owns 17
Country Estates totaling more than
100,000 acres in addition to liquid
assets of $550
million stored in different bank
accounts
internationally and the reason I'm
showing you this was this
apparently there were growing food
shortages at that time they didn't know
anything at that time compared to what
they see now look at this 23% inflation
that's very high 23% inflation compare
that to what they have now they would be
begging they would kill to have
23%
inflation and that's what's going on
here four times the official bank rate
on the black market
it's nowhere in the same realm as it was
just a few years ago and ever since
Maduro took office things have become so
much worse they were bad under
Chavez you can see all the numbers they
were increasing getting worse everything
but it looked like heaven compared to
what's experienced right now there's
more in this article just to give you
sort of a perspective from a few years
back